The goal is to build a finished, presentable mini-project in 2–3 days: a “Room Modes & Eigenfrequencies Analyzer.” The target is not perfection. The target is working code, clean plots, understandable physics, and something you can show on GitHub and put on your CV.

1.
Start by creating a simple project structure:

room_modes/
│
├── main.py
├── modes.py
├── visualization.py
├── README.md
└── requirements.txt

Install the required libraries:

	pip install numpy matplotlib

2.
Your first task is implementing the room mode calculation. Use the rectangular-room eigenfrequency formula. Write a function like:

	calculate_modes(Lx, Ly, Lz, max_mode=5)

Loop over combinations of (nx, ny, nz) from 0 to max_mode, skipping (0,0,0). For each mode, compute:

a. frequency
b. mode indices
c. mode type (axial, tangential, oblique)

Store them in dictionaries like:

	{
	   "freq": ...,
    	   "mode": (nx, ny, nz),
	   "type": ...
	}

Sort the modes by frequency and print the lowest few for debugging:

	Mode (1,0,0) | 34.3 Hz | axial
	Mode (0,1,0) | 45.1 Hz | axial


3.
Then create your first visualization. Plot the frequencies as vertical lines using plt.axvline(freq) so you get a resonance map of the room. 
At this point, the project already exists. Do not optimize or redesign anything yet.

4.
Next, improve the visualization. Add different colors for axial, tangential, and oblique modes. 

5.
Then create a histogram or modal density plot showing how modes cluster across the frequency spectrum. This lets you discuss acoustically relevant effects 
like uneven bass response and problematic low-frequency resonances.

6.
After that, add a simple mode-shape visualization. For a selected mode (nx, ny, nz), compute a 2D pressure distribution using:

	p(x,y)=cos(nxπx/Lx) + cos(nyπy/Ly)

Visualize it with plt.imshow() to show nodes and antinodes. Even one working visualization is enough to make the project much more impressive.

7.
Create an outputs/ folder and automatically save generated figures such as:

	mode_distribution.png
	mode_shape.png

Then clean up the main script so the project is easy to run:

	Lx = 5
	Ly = 4
	Lz = 2.8

Running:

	python main.py

should generate the plots directly.

8.
Finally, write a clean README. Include:

	what the project does
	the basic theory
	example images
	how to run it
	technologies used (Python, NumPy, Matplotlib)

Add one short acoustics insight section, for example: “The simulation shows clustering of room modes at low frequencies, 
which contributes to uneven bass response in small rectangular rooms.” Avoid overengineering. Do not build a GUI, real-time processing, FEM simulations, or advanced optimization. 
Those things kill small projects before they finish.

The real goal is demonstrating that you can:

	implement mathematical models
	structure code properly
	visualize data
	explain acoustical results

If you finish this cleanly, you’ll have:

	a GitHub project
	several professional-looking plots
	a strong CV bullet point
	something meaningful to discuss in interviews for acoustics/DSP roles.